Welcome! In this lecture we're going to be looking at using cool assets to make our
game actually like like a game of basketball. We're also
going to be doing a little bit of play-testing, to ensure that while it's very
hard to score these baskets it is not completely impossible.
Even though I might be failing to do it right now, you'll be able to see how
we can do all of that in the next video.
For those of us who aren't actually using an Oculus Rift
to develop the rest of this game, I'm just going to go through and setup these
Canvases back to being Overlays,
which is what we were seeing before. If we hit play,
then this should give us the desired
behavior, which it does! Perfect! And
I'm going to do that for all the other Canvases, throughout
our game...
...
...like so.
I'll just check a couple of them, I'll hit
PLAY AGAIN, and that's now correct again, but I
do need to put those back in a good place.
So let's zoom in on the Canvas, move our
text around, probably up here,
and I'll just check my aspect
ratio. In fact, I need to bring that in a little bit
and bring this in.
And
change it to being Bottom-Aligned. Check the
game! That works in that aspect ratio! Free Aspect
also works, so I hit save!
So we're back where we started! All we want to achieve
now is a bit of a pretty game, so to do that, what we're going to do is import
what's called an Asset Bundle. So you go to the Assets menu,
go to Import Package, and import Custom Package. Now,
there is a package against this lecture, you'll need to download before you can do this, so
if you haven't already got that, pause the video now and download it. But mine's already
downloaded, so I'm going to go ahead! And the Asset Pack you're
looking or is called Shoot Hoop Kit. Alright, it's attached to this lecture,
so you can just download it from here. So I'm going to open that up, and what'll come up
is this Import Unity package dialog, with all these check boxes, prefabs,
materials, etc. Now, just leave all the things
checked. I've already made this as small an asset
pack as can possibly be, so don't uncheck anything.
Now hit Import, and you should get these
lovely assets, which have come to us courtesy of
a website called Joongly Games, actually a Russian
studio. Let me just take you to their website! It's spelled like so,
joongly.com. And
the Asset Pack in question is based off this game,
Basketball Shoot Kit, and you can actually find this in
the Unity Assets Store. I'm going to be showing you more about the Assets Store in the next
lecture. But it's quite a cool game in it's own right! You can actually try it
out here, there's a WEB DEMO, so I do recommend that. And you can also find the link to
this in the lecture notes, again. OK so let's
go back in! Hopefully our import is done now
and we have our Shoot Hoot... Shoot Hoop, Shoot Hoop. It says Shoot Hoot,
actually, but for yours that spelling mistake will hopefully be
corrected. So what you have in the Shoot Hoop kit
is the ball and RingBoard, and these are two
assets, which we are going to import into our scene. So I'm going to just
double-click on the Ground, so
that we have that kind of level of scale, and I'm going to
drag in our RingBoard into our Hierarchy,
which is, as you see, has pretty much positioned itself quite well in the scene.
So if I look from above, and I'll need
to do the Rotation Tool to bring this around.
There we go! And I'll just
reposition it, now, in front of
our Player. Let's take a look at what this looks like!
There we go! So we have
this nice Ring Board, which even has some little bits of
cool animation on it, so that if we fire at it,
we get the net bouncing around
and the Ring Board bouncing back. So that is really nice, actually, it looks
pretty cool and makes our game just look that little bit more polished!
So it's your turn again! I'd like you to build a level from the assets in this
Asset Pack. So I'd like you to duplicate the RingBoard prefab,
around your level. You would need to position it around, scale it, rotate
it, whatever you want to do, just get creative! Remove the unecessary
blocks in the scene, because we don't need those anymore now that we have this cool RingBoard!
And then, replace the ball that gets shot, with
that cool one that is included in the Asset Pack, that actually looks like a basketball.
OK, pause the video, and let your creativity run wild!
OK, welcome back! I'm going to dive right in
and let my own creativity run wild! So let's go to the RingBoard, and
first off, as I said, I'm going to be duplicating this a couple of times to
create our different rings. And let's position
these off to the side, so RingBoard (1) over here
to here, and I think I'm going to bring them around in a bit of an arc,
in fact, because otherwise this is going to be really hard to play if
I don't bring them around at all. And so,
as a result I'm going to have to, oops, rotate them
around something a little bit like this
is what I'm thinking of. So I want to rotate that like
that, I'm going to move it
in line. That seems about
right to me! And then, our third one, I'm just going to bring
along, rotate it a little bit.
And I'm not going to do all of them, that would spoil the fun
for you guys, so I'll let you do your own creative
work. So let's just preview that scene!
Right now, we're surrounded by our Ring Boards,
which is exactly what we wanted! And we have to try and shoot our own
baskets, so how do we do that? Trickily is the answer to
that! There we go, I might just about be
able to get one in, but it's pretty pretty tough so this may require
some play-testing to get the directions all correct.
So the next challenge was to make the Player
spawn a basketball that is actually this ball.
So I'm going to drag that ball, simply, into the Ball Prefab, and that's
how easy it is, because we left that exposable to
the level designer in fact. As a programmer,
we expose that to the level designer. So let's hit play and now see
what ball gets generated! OK, this is pretty cool! Now we're actually
playing basketball! And you'll notice this ball has a bit more
bounce to it, it's a little bit more springy, and that is actually
making this pretty impossible to play, at the moment.
We'll need to do some work to adjust that, so
let's try and do some play-adjusting! The way I'm going to do that is
simply by bringing down our Ball Speed, because I think we are basically
launching it with a lot more velocity and force than
a basketball should be launched. So let's
try that out! Right now, you see it's struggling to quite
reach the target, so I think we need somewhere in between the two,
perhaps around 15.
Let's save and play,
and let's have a go now! OK, this
might be better, although it is quite hard still. [Laughs]
I might need to aim... There we go! Ooh ooh, very
close! Nearly! No, if it bounces off the ring,
it doesn't quite make it in, so we may have to just make these a little bit
shorter or our Player just a bit taller. But as you can see, this
is really just a matter of play-testing, at this stage, so I'm going to make my
Player a bit taller and see if that helps me out.
After all, basketball players do tend to be very tall individuals.
Let's see, if I aim to the backboard...
No, still not quite working!
It does
look like I need a little bit less force, so let's bring
down this, to about 12 instead.
This does look more promising. There we
go! We were able to score a basket, but it's still a very hard game, so you'll have to
tweak these parameters and possibly reposition your
board so that scoring baskets is a little bit easier than that.
OK, the next level will be looking at how we can actually reintroduce
these scores!